---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on Grades
description: I finished the last 2 midterms of my life today. Here are some random thoughts on grades.
---

### Exam Grades

If you have been in an American college, you will probably realize that half credit is not the same as half knowledge. There are usually "pity points" for attempting, explicit or not. For example, my Embedded Systems class had a rubric like "alternative explanation, +2" for every question; the freshman CS course I TA'ed had things like "return an int". If you write "V=IR" on all the questions on the first 18-100 exam, I think 5 out of 100 is very likely.

From my observation, 70% of the score usually means half correct in a typical exam. When I studied in China, 50% of the points are usually half-correct. I see what American educators are trying to achieve here: to distinguish the effort put into the problem, to respect different schools of thought, and to protect students' self-esteem. I question its effectiveness, though. Even if a person never studied the material, what are the chances they walk into the exam and submit a blank paper? When the grader glances at the paper and click on "valid attempt", did they actually process what the student wrote? When someone gets the average score, does it really matter if the average is 80 or 40?

One unintended effect of this "grade inflation", however, is that many "good" students jump from 70-80 to 85+. I don't think this is a good thing. I have definitely got over 90% when I barely understood any details of the class material. It made me feel too good about myself and gave me the illusion that I mastered the subject. I am not against giving away pity points, but I think every one of us should be aware that this problem exists. By the way, contrary to many people, I also don't think "reflect on what you learned" is a good approach to quantify the gain of a class. I can learn a lot and hate what I learned; I can learn very little and like the tiny bit I understood. Quoting from my favorite professor in freshman year, sometimes you just need that "click". It may not happen before the class ends, but if you like it and keep trying, it will eventually "click" for you.

Another thing I noticed among my peers is the expectation that any "understanding" is worth points. I had many students coming to me and say: "I know what's wrong with my answer, but can I get a regrade because this line shows my understanding". My answer is always "go to the prof" but the internal answer is "no". This world has no absolute values; your performance is relative to the people around you. If your "understanding" is understood by 99% percent of your classmates, it is not necessary anymore to allocate exam credits for it. It becomes a part of the baseline, as you won't expect a calculus course to give partials for understanding addition. 

In short, the absolute score on a scale of 100 means nothing, be sure you really know where you are in the class. 

## Homework Grades

Homework or programming assignments are the chances for students to learn without tight time constraints. If you want to learn, 100% on homework is the goal. Period.

You may ask, then, why are you even writing about this? 

Because there are multiple pathways to a 100% on homework. You might spend the whole week on a problem set alone, you might go to the course staff, you might collaborate with your friends, or you might cheat. Among various components of a class, I like assignments the most, because they are the closest to what I will be doing for the rest of my life ("open book, collaborative, no one knows the solution"). Therefore, I would recommend my peers to achieve a 100% on homework with collaboration to better simulate your after-college life.

However, many are held back by the possibility to be identified as cheating. On the other extreme, homework assignments are often ungraded in China. The teacher will provide you detailed feedback but it won't be a part of the overall grade. It eliminates the need for catching cheaters and opens massive opportunities for discussion and collaboration. 

To me, the ideal way is to open collaboration with one constraint: everything you write down, you must understand. Then, have homework weight 10%-15%. So, it is possible to not drop a letter grade without getting very good scores on the homework, removing most incentives to "hard cheat". It also reduces the number of false positives in cheat detection, as it is now okay for 2 people to figure out one solution together and get it wrong. 

As of today, my proposal is not widely accepted. Until then, I would still encourage my peers to collaborate as much as possible within the allowed scope. Don't go to the TA or prof for everything. When collaboration becomes grade-driven, stop it, go to an authorized retailer of answers instead if you really want to. 