---
layout: post
title: Three daily confusions at work (as a new grad)
description: Wanted to share how I tortured myself daily at work so you don't make the same mistakes.
---

It has been 90 days and I have theoretically ramped up as a software engineer at the Revenue Platform team at DoorDash. 

I always tell my friends that I am the happiest new hire ever. That is not wrong. However, I often frustrate myself with the following sets of questions. Shared below is how stopped giving myself a hard time (mostly).

## 1. What did I do? What am I doing?

### How I tortured myself

I often felt that I have been busy the whole day, but the time was mostly tracing dead ends and "understanding stuff" in general. So, from a result perspective, almost nothing was done. Further, the fact that I have been tracing dead ends made me wonder if the current route would also take me to nowhere. Rather than making the code work, I spent more time convincing myself internally that it won't work.

This was independent of the amount of help I got from others. Everyone was really helpful and I was not shy about asking questions. At the very, very early stage, even coming up with a concise question could be a hard battle. Correctly understanding others' advice also took a long time. My mentor was worried that I was blocked, but I was never blocked -- I was just taking my time to understand stuff. 

### How I stopped torturing myself

The first step was to understand that the whole ramp-up process is a guided struggle. Looking back, my first few tasks were **easy**, **interesting**, and most importantly, **unimportant** tasks that **touched different parts of our service**. The first 20 lines of code I changed belonged to 3 different components of our service. I'm very thankful that I didn't get too comfortable by line 20. 

The second step is to convince myself that being slow today is better than being slow tomorrow. Taking college as an example, it is more okay to ask "what's a linked list" as a CS freshman than a senior. Similarly, it is always optimal to learn what I don't know the moment I discovered it. 

Finally, I have learned to be honest about failures. When I traced a dead-end the whole day, I just describe what and why it didn't work. Telling people I've tried is better than making them wonder if I watched YouTube for an entire day. Further, I want my coworkers to feel comfortable sharing their mistakes too, so that we can learn from each other's mistakes. 

### What I wish I have listened

*Mentor 1: The code change is probably one-line, but I want you to find out the reason behind it.* 

- I made the one-line change. It didn't work. I made many one-line changes after finding out the reason behind it. 

*Mentor 2: Don't feel bad taking our time. Mentor 1 and I are investing for the future. The eventual goal is we can tell you "Yating can you do this" and you can get it done by yourself.*

- She got a lot busier now and I wish I have taken her time earlier. 


## 2. What do I know? Why do I still don't know?


## 3. What are others doing? How can they do this much?