---
layout: post
hidden: true
title: Parallel Computer Architecture and Programming
---
**Number**: 15-418/618

**Units**: 12

**Why**: I once had a dream to enter the hardware industry. Many friends were taking; did not get off the wait list for 15-440 until week 2. 

**Workload**: 3 hours of lecture most of the weeks; 2-3 days when there's a programming; 5 days for final project. It was among the light side of system courses but they added homework now.

**Topics**: We only had lectures for the first 3 months of the semester; we were supposed to focus on the project for a month but most people didn't start until the end. The first 2/3 were mostly about parallel processing and memory consistency; the last 1/3 was about introducing many frameworks and parallel ML.

**Programmings**: All programmings were in groups of 2, with the exception of the first one. There were 4 programming assignments:
1. 213 recap, threads, SIMD, etc.
2. Parallel circle renderer using CUDA. It's pretty hard to get full credits.
3. Parallelize a problem using OpenMP. Our year was N-body simulation. 
4. Solve the same problem using MPI.

**Project**: It's very flexible. Your project will be approved as long as it's vaguely related to the course content. Try to not choose a problem where you have to build everything from scratch (for example, you need to implement a complex sequential solution first). I highly doubt that the instructors actually read the source code, so the presentation is very important. 

**Grading**: Exam average varies a lot across semesters. How they curve was quite a mystery to me. 

**Comment**: This course is surprisingly interesting. We discussed a lot about hardware; CS majors be aware. I highly recommend it for ECE people interested in architecture.

**Related Courses**
* 18-447 Computer Architecture
* 18-645 How to Write Fast Code
* 18-646 How to Write Fast Code II
* 15-741 Computer Architecture
* 18-741 Modern Computer Architecture and Design
