---
layout: post
hidden: true
title: Introduction to Embedded Systems
---
**Number**: 18-349/14-642

**Units**: 12

**Why**: A senior told me Lab 4 is an intro to OS. I wanted to see if I really want to suffer through OS. It's also an ECE software area course.

**Workload**: My partner and I spent at least 3 nights for every lab, including checkpoints. The lab was full at midnight when Lab 4 was due. Sometimes you spent hours debugging only to find there’s an issue with the hardware. Overall, it’s very time-consuming but rewarding.

**Projects**: Projects are done in a group of 2. The code you write carries over to future labs, so it's not possible to switch partner.
0. Designing and assembling a PCB board.
1. The first task was writing a bootloader in C. The second task was optimizing some ARM assembly code using techniques discussed in the lectures.
2. Universal Asynchronous Receiver/transmitter (UART) and serial communication.
3. Timers, Interrupts, and SysCalls
4. Writing a simple kernel. The main tasks were context switching, thread creation, Rate Monotonic Scheduling (RMS), Priority Ceiling Protocol (P2P).

**Grading**: If your labs are checked-off and work property, you will likely get close to perfect score. The midterm was hard but all the questions were reasonable. Not sure there was a curve.

**Comment**: Great course but a lot of work. I recommend it for all ECE majors with time and a reliable partner. Although this is a software area course, it gets you into Comp Arch as well. 

**Related Courses*: There are many graduate offerings in the ECE department. I heard that Apple is working with CMU to create more courses as well.